README.md, before:

# Flood

![Flood logo](flood.png)

[![Travis CI build status badge](https://img.shields.io/travis/jfurrow/flood/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/jfurrow/flood) [![Discord server badge](https://img.shields.io/discord/418267176873623553.svg?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/Z7yR5Uf)

Flood is a monitoring service for [rTorrent](https://github.com/rakshasa/rtorrent). It's a Node.js service that communicates with rTorrent instances and serves a decent web UI for administration. It's a work-in-progress.

#### Feedback

If you have a specific issue or bug, please file a Github issue. Please join the [Flood Discord server](https://discord.gg/Z7yR5Uf) to discuss feature requests and implementation details.

# Getting started

### Pre-Requisites

1. [rTorrent](https://github.com/rakshasa/rtorrent) needs to be installed and running __with XMLRPC__ configuration.
    * For Linux & OS X, check out [rTorrent's installation wiki](https://github.com/rakshasa/rtorrent/wiki/Installing#compilation-help) and/or [this third-party tutorial](https://jes.sc/kb/rTorrent+ruTorrent-Seedbox-Guide.php#Install-Dependencies). When you run `./configure`, be sure to run with the `--with-xmlrpc-c` flag.
    * For Windows, try [this guide](https://rtwi.jmk.hu/wiki/rTorrentOnWindows).
2. Install NodeJS version `8` or higher (you might want to manage different Node versions with [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) or [n](https://github.com/tj/n)).

### Configuration

Copy `config.template.js` to `config.js` and review its comments. **This is required.**

When loading the web interface, you will be prompted to configure the connection to rtorrent. Other configuration options are handled `config.js`.

**What to configure**

1. Be sure to create a long and unique secret (used to sign [JWT auth tokens](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken)).
3. If you are proxying requests to Flood from your own web server, configure Flood's path from the host at the `baseURI` property. All requests will be prefixed with this value.
    * For example, if serving Flood from `https://foo.bar/apps/flood`, you would set `baseURI` to `/apps/flood`. If serving flood from `https://foo.bar`, you do not need to configure `baseURI`.
    * [Read more about proxying requests to Flood on the Wiki](https://github.com/jfurrow/flood/wiki/Using-Flood-behind-a-reverse-proxy), this is a common pain-point for users.
    
**Note**: Some of these values are baked into the static assets (like `baseURI`), so changes to this file require recompling static assets.

### Compiling assets and starting the server

From the root of the Flood directory...
1. Run `npm install` if you haven't already or if you've pulled changes.
2. Run `npm run build`.
3. Run `npm start`.

Access the UI in your browser. With default settings, go to `http://localhost:3000`. You can configure the port in `config.js`.

### Updating

I've been bad about cutting actual releases, so check this repo for recent commits.

1. To update, run `git pull` in this repository's directory.
1. Check `config.template.js` for configuration changes that you may wish to incoporate in your `config.js`.
1. Kill the currently running Flood server.
1. Run `npm install` to update dependencies.
1. Run `npm run build` to transpile and bundle static assets.
1. Start the Flood server with `npm start`.

### Troubleshooting

* Ubuntu users may need to install `nodejs-legacy` (`sudo apt-get install nodejs-legacy`) for dependencies to install successfully. You can read more on [this Stack Overflow post](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/21168141/cannot-install-packages-using-node-package-manager-in-ubuntu).
* Ask for help in the [Flood Discord server](https://discord.gg/Z7yR5Uf).

### Local Development

1. Run `npm install`.
2. Run `npm run start:development:server` and `npm run start:development:client` in separate terminal instances.
    * `npm run start:development:server` uses [nodemon](https://github.com/remy/nodemon) to watch for changes to the server-side JavaScript.
    * `npm run start:development:client` watches for changes in the client-side source.
3. Access the UI in your browser. Defaults to `localhost:4200`.

### Environment Variables

1. `DEV_SERVER_PORT`: webpackDevServer's port, used when developing Flood. Defaults to `4200`.
1. `DEV_SERVER_HOST`: webpackDevServer's host, used when developing Flood. Defaults to `0.0.0.0`.
1. `DEV_SERVER_HTTPS`: webpackDevServer's protocol, used when developing Flood. Defaults to `http`.

### Running with Docker

1. `docker build -t rtorrent-flood .`
2. `docker run --name rtorrent-flood -e RTORRENT_SCGI_HOST=w.x.y.z -p 3000:3000 rtorrent-flood`
3. Other supported environment variables:
    * `FLOOD_BASE_URI`
    * `FLOOD_SECRET`
    * `FLOOD_ENABLE_SSL`

The docker container includes a volume at `/data`, which is where the database will be located.  Additionally, you can place your SSL files there, `/data/flood_ssl.key` and `/data/flood_ssl.cert`. Set `FLOOD_ENABLE_SSL` to `true` to enable their use if present. Additionally, a local rtorrent socket file located at `/data/rtorrent.sock` can be used if `RTORRENT_SOCK` is set to `true`.

Check out the [Wiki](https://github.com/jfurrow/flood/wiki/Docker) for more information.

## Acknowledgments

Check out [`package.json`](./package.json)'s `dependency` property to see the projects that make this app possible. Flood's client-side build tooling is based on the wonderful [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app).

Commit message:

add node-gyp and nodenv

README.md, after:

# Flood

![Flood logo](flood.png)

[![Travis CI build status badge](https://img.shields.io/travis/jfurrow/flood/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/jfurrow/flood) [![Discord server badge](https://img.shields.io/discord/418267176873623553.svg?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/Z7yR5Uf)

Flood is a monitoring service for [rTorrent](https://github.com/rakshasa/rtorrent). It's a Node.js service that communicates with rTorrent instances and serves a decent web UI for administration. It's a work-in-progress.

#### Feedback

If you have a specific issue or bug, please file a Github issue. Please join the [Flood Discord server](https://discord.gg/Z7yR5Uf) to discuss feature requests and implementation details.

# Getting started

### Pre-Requisites

1. [rTorrent](https://github.com/rakshasa/rtorrent) needs to be installed and running __with XMLRPC__ configuration.
    * For Linux & OS X, check out [rTorrent's installation wiki](https://github.com/rakshasa/rtorrent/wiki/Installing#compilation-help) and/or [this third-party tutorial](https://jes.sc/kb/rTorrent+ruTorrent-Seedbox-Guide.php#Install-Dependencies). When you run `./configure`, be sure to run with the `--with-xmlrpc-c` flag.
    * For Windows, try [this guide](https://rtwi.jmk.hu/wiki/rTorrentOnWindows).
2. Install NodeJS version `8` or higher (you might want to manage different Node versions with [nodenv](https://github.com/nodenv/nodenv) or [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) or [n](https://github.com/tj/n)).
3. Install `node-gyp` pre-requisites, see https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-gyp#installation, ex: `python2`, `make`, `gcc`.

### Configuration

Copy `config.template.js` to `config.js` and review its comments. **This is required.**

When loading the web interface, you will be prompted to configure the connection to rtorrent. Other configuration options are handled `config.js`.

**What to configure**

1. Be sure to create a long and unique secret (used to sign [JWT auth tokens](https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken)).
3. If you are proxying requests to Flood from your own web server, configure Flood's path from the host at the `baseURI` property. All requests will be prefixed with this value.
    * For example, if serving Flood from `https://foo.bar/apps/flood`, you would set `baseURI` to `/apps/flood`. If serving flood from `https://foo.bar`, you do not need to configure `baseURI`.
    * [Read more about proxying requests to Flood on the Wiki](https://github.com/jfurrow/flood/wiki/Using-Flood-behind-a-reverse-proxy), this is a common pain-point for users.
    
**Note**: Some of these values are baked into the static assets (like `baseURI`), so changes to this file require recompling static assets.

### Compiling assets and starting the server

From the root of the Flood directory...
1. Run `npm install` if you haven't already or if you've pulled changes.
2. Run `npm run build`.
3. Run `npm start`.

Access the UI in your browser. With default settings, go to `http://localhost:3000`. You can configure the port in `config.js`.

### Updating

I've been bad about cutting actual releases, so check this repo for recent commits.

1. To update, run `git pull` in this repository's directory.
1. Check `config.template.js` for configuration changes that you may wish to incoporate in your `config.js`.
1. Kill the currently running Flood server.
1. Run `npm install` to update dependencies.
1. Run `npm run build` to transpile and bundle static assets.
1. Start the Flood server with `npm start`.

### Troubleshooting

* Ubuntu users may need to install `nodejs-legacy` (`sudo apt-get install nodejs-legacy`) for dependencies to install successfully. You can read more on [this Stack Overflow post](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/21168141/cannot-install-packages-using-node-package-manager-in-ubuntu).
* Ask for help in the [Flood Discord server](https://discord.gg/Z7yR5Uf).

### Local Development

1. Run `npm install`.
2. Run `npm run start:development:server` and `npm run start:development:client` in separate terminal instances.
    * `npm run start:development:server` uses [nodemon](https://github.com/remy/nodemon) to watch for changes to the server-side JavaScript.
    * `npm run start:development:client` watches for changes in the client-side source.
3. Access the UI in your browser. Defaults to `localhost:4200`.

### Environment Variables

1. `DEV_SERVER_PORT`: webpackDevServer's port, used when developing Flood. Defaults to `4200`.
1. `DEV_SERVER_HOST`: webpackDevServer's host, used when developing Flood. Defaults to `0.0.0.0`.
1. `DEV_SERVER_HTTPS`: webpackDevServer's protocol, used when developing Flood. Defaults to `http`.

### Running with Docker

1. `docker build -t rtorrent-flood .`
2. `docker run --name rtorrent-flood -e RTORRENT_SCGI_HOST=w.x.y.z -p 3000:3000 rtorrent-flood`
3. Other supported environment variables:
    * `FLOOD_BASE_URI`
    * `FLOOD_SECRET`
    * `FLOOD_ENABLE_SSL`

The docker container includes a volume at `/data`, which is where the database will be located.  Additionally, you can place your SSL files there, `/data/flood_ssl.key` and `/data/flood_ssl.cert`. Set `FLOOD_ENABLE_SSL` to `true` to enable their use if present. Additionally, a local rtorrent socket file located at `/data/rtorrent.sock` can be used if `RTORRENT_SOCK` is set to `true`.

Check out the [Wiki](https://github.com/jfurrow/flood/wiki/Docker) for more information.

## Acknowledgments

Check out [`package.json`](./package.json)'s `dependency` property to see the projects that make this app possible. Flood's client-side build tooling is based on the wonderful [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app).
